## Page/element Locators

### Problem<br/>
Increasing automation test coverage can result in unmaintainable project structure, if locators are not managed in right way. This can happen due to duplication of code or mainly due to duplicated usage of locators.

### Solution<br/>
Using Page Object Model, all element locators are being managed in separate directory and can be updated easily without any change in test cases.<br/>

### UI Mapping<br/>

- To map the user interface could be a very efficient way, not only to create and perform automated tests but also to maintain them. You have all the information stored and organized in one place and if anything changes in the front end or HTML or CSS etc., you just need to update one single file. So, you can easily manage your tests.<br/>
- You can perform UI mapping in a variety of ways. For instance, creating a class or structure to store the element’s name with its locator / id OR a property file with key/value pairs OR a JASON, YAML and so on.<br/>

### Web Elements Location Strategy (e.g. Using Selenium)<br/>

- Id / Name: these parameters are easy, efficient, increase performance and readability.<br/>
- Path: although slow in some browsers, sometimes it’s the only way to get an object. It is also a good option if you need to ensure that some object must appear after another, like div//a;<br/>
- Link Text or <a>: efficient, good performance, but take care if the text changes too often.<br/>
- Dynamic Elements / AJAX: these elements are generated by the server and, normally, the id/name changes each time the page is opened, so the best way is use the XPATH to map them.<br/>

### Troubleshooting<br/>

If you encounter NoSuchElementException() while finding elements, it means that the element is not found in the page at the point the Web driver accessed the page.<br/>

1. Check your locator again using Firepath or Inspect Element in Chrome.<br/>
2. Check whether the value you used in the code is different from the one for the element in Firepath now.<br/>
3. Some properties are dynamic for few elements. In case, you find that the value is different and is changing dynamically, consider using By.xpath() or By.cssSelector() which are more reliable but complex ways.<br/>
4. Sometimes, it could be a wait issue too i.e., the Web driver executed your code even before the page loaded completely, etc.<br/>
5. Add a wait before findElement() using implicit or explicit waits.<br/>

**Sources:**<br/>
- [Page Object Model (POM) | Design Pattern](https://medium.com/tech-tajawal/page-object-model-pom-design-pattern-f9588630800b)
- [14 Test Automation Best Practices to Supercharge Testing Efficiency](https://blog.testproject.io/2017/04/16/test-automation-best-practices/)
- [Selenium Form WebElement: TextBox, Submit Button, sendkeys(), click()](https://www.guru99.com/accessing-forms-in-webdriver.html)
